security.md, before:

# Security

## Disclosure Policy

If you find a bug please first check [the issues page](https://github.com/jackseceng/LinkShort/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Abug) for open bugs

- If your bug is already a reported issue, please give it a like and add any additional context you think is useful

- If your bug is not on the status page, please [report a vulnerability on the repository security page](https://github.com/jackseceng/LinkShort/security/advisories/new)

## Tooling

This is a list of tooling used by this repository to find vulnerabilities & bugs.
> Security findings with a criticality of Medium or higher are considered a failure on PR checks


| Capability | Tool    |
| ---------- | ------- |
| Automated dependency updates    | [Renovate](https://www.mend.io/renovate/)                       |
| Code Bugs                       | [CodeQL](https://codeql.github.com/)                            |
| Dependency Vulnerabilities      | [Snyk](https://snyk.io/product/open-source-security-management/)|
| Container Vulnerabiltiies       | [Grype](https://github.com/anchore/grype/) [Scout](https://docs.docker.com/scout/) [Trivy](https://trivy.dev/latest/docs/target/container_image/) |

## Future Enhancements

- Database entries are not encypted at rest, will implement with hashsums from extensions generated. Docummented in [issue 177](https://github.com/jackseceng/LinkShort/issues/177)

Commit message:

docs(security): Update security.md
Update security file with recent changes

security.md, after:

# Security

## Disclosure Policy

If you find a bug please first check [the issues page](https://github.com/jackseceng/LinkShort/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Abug) for open bugs

If your bug is already a reported issue, please give it a like and add any additional context you think is useful

## Tooling

This is a list of tooling used by this repository to find vulnerabilities & bugs.
- PR checks are not currently set to fail if a vulnerability is found, please review your PR scans before requesting a review.
- Unfixed vulnerabilities of medium severity or higher must be justified to a PR reviewer before merging


| Capability | Tool    |
| ---------- | ------- |
| Automated dependency updates    | [Renovate](https://www.mend.io/renovate/)                       |
| Code Bugs                       | [CodeQL](https://codeql.github.com/)                            |
| Dependency Vulnerabilities      | [Snyk](https://snyk.io/product/open-source-security-management/)|
| Container Vulnerabiltiies       | [Grype](https://github.com/anchore/grype/) [Scout](https://docs.docker.com/scout/) [Trivy](https://trivy.dev/latest/docs/target/container_image/) |

## Future Enhancements

[x] Encrypt database entries at rest with hashsums from extensions as primary key. [Documented in Issue 177](https://github.com/jackseceng/LinkShort/issues/177)
